README.md, before:

python_setuptools_extversion
============================

Adds an `extversion` param to `setup` that can specify various ways of
getting a version string dynamically, from an external source:

- A Python function
- An external program (e.g.: `git`, `hg`, etc.)

Examples
--------

This one is of dubious usefulness, but illustrates the very basic
concept.

```python
from setuptools import setup

def extversion(distribution):
    return '3.4.5'

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=extversion,
)
```

Above, `extversion` is a callable (a plain function in this case) that
accepts one parameter with a `setuptools.dist.Distribution`. It's silly
of course to just return a static string here, as you could've just used
the `version` parameter of vanilla setuptools. But this illustrates the
basic concept and you can make your real-life function do something much
more interesting.

As a slightly more useful example function, consider this one that
prompts the user to enter a version string:

```python
def get_version(distribution):
    return raw_input("Please enter a version string for %s: "
                     % distribution.metadata.name)

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=get_version,
)
```

Another possible use would be to read the version string from a file:

```python
def get_version(distribution):
    return open('VERSION.txt').read()

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=get_version,
)
```

There's no reason that you couldn't use a `lambda`:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=lambda d: open('VERSION.txt').read(),
)
```

Instead of providing a `callable` object, you can provide a dotted-path
string to specify the function -- e.g.:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='my_package.version:get_package_version',
)
```

There is no need to `import` the module; the `import` will be done for
you automatically, on-demand.

One thing that is useful to do is to call an external command -- you may
want to run, say, `git describe --tags --dirty` to generate your version
number. You could of course do this using the features already
described, by writing a Python function that invokes a subprocess. But
there is a shortcut that saves you from the trouble of doing this --
simply enclose the string in backquotes and it will be treated as a
shell command:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='`git describe --tags --dirty`',
)
```

Mercurial users could use this:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='`hg log -r . '
                   '--template "{latesttag}-{branch}-{latesttagdistance}'
                   '-m{node|short}"`',
)
```

Note that the ability to generate a version from a Python callable or an
external command is extremely flexible and powerful. Here are some ideas on how
you could use this:

- Run a command for another VCS such as bzr, darcs, etc.
- Call a Python function that fetches version from a text file
- Call a Python function that fetches version from some database or server
- Call a Python function that prompts for the version number on the console
  using `input` or `raw_input`

Have other ideas? Send me a PR!

Commit message:

Implement and document special git and hg funcs
Add shortcut functions for getting version from git tags or Mercurial
tags.

    extversion='setuptools_extversion:git'
    extversion='setuptools_extversion:hg',

README.md, after:

python_setuptools_extversion
============================

Adds an `extversion` param to `setup` that can specify various ways of
getting a version string dynamically, from an external source:

- A Python function
- An external program (e.g.: `git`, `hg`, etc.)

Examples
--------

This one is of dubious usefulness, but illustrates the very basic
concept.

```python
from setuptools import setup

def extversion(distribution):
    return '3.4.5'

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=extversion,
)
```

Above, `extversion` is a callable (a plain function in this case) that
accepts one parameter with a `setuptools.dist.Distribution`. It's silly
of course to just return a static string here, as you could've just used
the `version` parameter of vanilla setuptools. But this illustrates the
basic concept and you can make your real-life function do something much
more interesting.

As a slightly more useful example function, consider this one that
prompts the user to enter a version string:

```python
def get_version(distribution):
    return raw_input("Please enter a version string for %s: "
                     % distribution.metadata.name)

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=get_version,
)
```

Another possible use would be to read the version string from a file:

```python
def get_version(distribution):
    return open('VERSION.txt').read()

setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=get_version,
)
```

There's no reason that you couldn't use a `lambda`:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion=lambda d: open('VERSION.txt').read(),
)
```

Instead of providing a `callable` object, you can provide a dotted-path
string to specify the function -- e.g.:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='my_package.version:get_package_version',
)
```

There is no need to `import` the module; the `import` will be done for
you automatically, on-demand.

One thing that is useful to do is to call an external command -- you may
want to run, say, `git describe --tags --dirty` to generate your version
number. You could of course do this using the features already
described, by writing a Python function that invokes a subprocess. But
there is a shortcut that saves you from the trouble of doing this --
simply enclose the string in backquotes and it will be treated as a
shell command:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='`git describe --tags --dirty`',
)
```

Mercurial users could use this:

```python
setup(
    name='my_distribution',
    setup_requires=['setuptools_extversion'],
    extversion='`hg log -r . '
                   '--template "{latesttag}-{branch}-{latesttagdistance}'
                   '-m{node|short}"`',
)
```

The last two examples are illustrative of the power of using external
commands, but they are actually more verbose than need be, because this
package provides shortcut functions for `git` and `hg` (Mercurial). So
getting the version from git tags is as simple as:

```python
extversion='setuptools_extversion:git'
```

and getting the version from Mercurial tags is as simple as:

```python
extversion='setuptools_extversion:hg',
```

Note that the ability to generate a version from a Python callable or an
external command is extremely flexible and powerful. Here are some ideas on how
you could use this:

- Run a command for another VCS such as bzr, darcs, etc.
- Call a Python function that fetches version from a text file
- Call a Python function that fetches version from some database or server
- Call a Python function that prompts for the version number on the console
  using `input` or `raw_input`

Have other ideas? Send me a PR!
